---
layout: post
title: Origins: where bugs, loops and patches come from
---

*The
-----
Library, bug, patch, loop - these words have been part of programmer lingo for decades, and on my recent trip to the US east coast I stumbled accross their orgin: [The Harvard Mark I](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_Mark_I):
--add picture

This amazing machine was one of the first programmable computers, but I'll tell you more about this beauty at the end of the post.

## The Loop

The "program" is a long paper tape with holes punched in that runs in this loop. Conditional branching is not supported (no gotos, jumps); you just have one long "while (true)".

## The Patch

A correction is made by literally patching a piece of the tape and punching new holes in. Fix your code with duct tape!

## The Bug

The classic! This "bug" was found on a Mark II mechanical component, so was not really a program error. It must have been "working on my machine".

As promised, here are more tidbits I found interesting:

* It was Steampunk! Ok, I mean it was electro-mechanical. The invetor Howard H. Aiken basically built a Babbage engine on steriods. 
* John Von Neumann used it to help design the atom bomb. Seems most of our high-tech was born in that war.
* The number system was decimal, not binary. So you could use all your fingers to code.
* It ran solidly for 15 years. Seems Moore's didn't apply to mechanical computers.
* The inventor did not give attribution IBM, who funded and helped to build it. I guess they had employed lots of laywers after that.



Poole is the butler for [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com), the static site generator. It's designed and developed by [@mdo](https://twitter.com/mdo) to provide a clear and concise foundational setup for any Jekyll site. It does so by furnishing a full vanilla Jekyll install with example templates, pages, posts, and styles.

* 
* [Lanyon](http://lanyon.getpoole.com)

### What's included

Poole is a streamlined Jekyll site designed and built as a foundation for building more meaningful themes. Poole, and every theme built on it, includes the following:

* Complete Jekyll setup included (layouts, config, [404](/404.html), [RSS feed](/atom.xml), posts, and [example page](/about))
* Mobile friendly design and development
* Easily scalable text and component sizing with `rem` units in the CSS
* Support for a wide gamut of HTML elements
* Related posts (time-based, because Jekyll) below each post
* Syntax highlighting, courtesy Pygments (the Python-based code snippet highlighter)

Additional features are available in individual themes.

### Browser support

Poole and it's themes are by preference a forward-thinking project. In addition to the latest versions of Chrome, Safari (mobile and desktop), and Firefox, it is only compatible with Internet Explorer 9 and above.

### Download

Poole is developed on and hosted with GitHub. Head to the <a href="https://github.com/poole/poole">GitHub repository</a> for downloads, bug reports, and features requests.

{% include twitter_include.html %}
